---
title:  "Week 4"
mathjax: true
layout: post
description: "Solidifying my understadning in rust"
tags: "week 3, rust, project, grep, chapter 12" 
---
Week four was a fun week as I finally got to work with what I have learned and was walked through how to build a project from start to finish. 

Rust’s speed, safety, single binary output, and cross-platform support make it an ideal language for creating command line tools, so for our project, we’ll make our own version of the classic command line tool grep (globally search a regular expression and print). In the simplest use case, grep searches a specified file for a specified string. To do so, grep takes as its arguments a filename and a string. Then it reads the file, finds lines in that file that contain the string argument, and prints those lines.

I am not going to show all of the code on this post because it is somewhat lenghty, however, [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch12-00-an-io-project.html) is the link to the chapter and the walk through where you can find everything.

While I am not going to show the code I am going to talk about a couple things that finally made some sense and that I delveloped a better understanding for once I wrote them in a project.

For example testing was a HUGE take away for me as it finally gave me some insight into a topic that made little sense. Lets take a look at that code.
```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn one_result() {
        let query = "duct";
        let contents = "\
Rust:
safe, fast, productive.
Pick three.";
        assert_eq!(vec!["safe, fast, productive."], search(query, contents));
    }

    #[test]
    fn case_insensitive() {
        let query = "rUsT";
        let contents = "\
Rust:
safe, fast, productive.
Pick three.
Trust me.";
        assert_eq!(
        vec!["Rust:", "Trust me."],
        search_case_insensitive(query, contents)
        );
    }

}
```
Here we define the tests module whcih will house all of the testing functions. we then import the code from above using the `super` keyword. Here I will examine the `one result` test function.
what it defines is two `str`s called query and contents. the query is what we are seaarching and the contents is the contents of what we are searching. It then runs the our `search` function from above with the contents and the query and tests if it exactly mactches the vector that we expect it to, `"safe, fast, productive"` sense this is where the keyword "duct" shows up.
If our `search` function works as intended this should be the result and thus pass the test.

The reason for writing tests is to make sure that all future changes do not have any unintended bugs or issues that cause the core functionaly of our code to break.

The next take away I took from this project was a better understanding of lifetimes. Although lifetimes do not make full sense to me I better understand them and this example of code made a lot more sense.
```rust
pub fn search<'a>(query: &str, contents: &'a str) -> Vec<&'a str> {
    vec![]
}
```


`NOTE: I am not fully confident in my understanding of lifetimes but here is what the documentation said and I think it put it better than I ever could.`


Notice that we need an explicit lifetime 'a defined in the signature of search and used with the contents argument and the return value. Recall in Chapter 10 that the lifetime parameters specify which argument lifetime is connected to the lifetime of the return value. In this case, we indicate that the returned vector should contain string slices that reference slices of the argument contents (rather than the argument query).

In other words, we tell Rust that the data returned by the search function will live as long as the data passed into the search function in the contents argument. This is important! The data referenced by a slice needs to be valid for the reference to be valid; if the compiler assumes we’re making string slices of query rather than contents, it will do its safety checking incorrectly.


```rust
$ cargo build
   Compiling minigrep v0.1.0 (file:///projects/minigrep)
error[E0106]: missing lifetime specifier
  --> src/lib.rs:28:51
   |
28 | pub fn search(query: &str, contents: &str) -> Vec<&str> {
   |                                                   ^ expected lifetime parameter
   |
   = help: this function's return type contains a borrowed value, but the signature does not say whether it is borrowed from `query` or `contents`

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0106`.
error: could not compile `minigrep`.

To learn more, run the command again with --verbose.
```

Rust can’t possibly know which of the two arguments we need, so we need to tell it. Because contents is the argument that contains all of our text and we want to return the parts of that text that match, we know contents is the argument that should be connected to the return value using the lifetime syntax.

