---
title:  "Week 5"
mathjax: true
layout: post
description: "Starting to do some of my own work with rust"
tags: "week 5, rust, calander" 
---

This week I have decided to move away from the book and try really writing some of my own code. I have adapted the previous week's code to take in system arguments and make sceduled events that will show up as notifications on my computer. 

The project will use two standard linux command line interfaces, `notfiy` and `at`. `notfiy` will send the noticaftion to the gnome linux interface and `at` will schedule these events. 

## What I accomplished this week. 

This week I was tight on time and only had two afternoons to get some work done and this is what I have done so far. 
### main.rs
```rust
use calander::*;
use std::{env, process};

fn main() {
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
    let customItem = calander::Event::new(args)
        .unwrap_or_else(|err | {
            println!("Oops looks like something went wrong {}", err);
            process::exit(1);
        });
}
```
Now lets walk through what this does..

```rust
use calander::*;
use std::{env, process};
```
the first two lines import what we need. line 1 imports the `lib.rs` crate which I will get to after this. and line two imports the two standard libraties needed, `env` and `process`. `env` will take in the arguments given at run  and `process` will handle errors.

```rust
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
```
line 5 makes a Vector of strings called `args` that uses the `env` std library to collect the arguments given when the binary is ran.

Next lets walk through what the bulk of `main.rs` is responsible for, making an event.
```rust
let customItem = calander::Event::new(args)
```
uses the `lib.rs` `Event impl` and `new` method to make a new `event` or really a calander event with the args that were supplied. 

We then use the process libary to catch an error with 
```rust
        .unwrap_or_else(|err | {
            println!("Oops looks like something went wrong {}", err);
            process::exit(1);
        });
```
if an error is caught we then print the error and then exit. 

### lib.rs
The bulk of the funcationaly is in the lib.rs crate and is where all of the magic happens. Lets take a look: 
```rust
use std::process::Command;

// Event struct that defines an Event
pub struct Event {
    title: String,
    description: String,
    time: String,
    date: String,
}
impl Event {
    // Make a new event
    pub fn new(args: Vec<String>) -> Result<Event, &'static str> {
        let title = args[0].clone();
        let description = args[1].clone();
        let time = args[2].clone();
        let date = args[3].clone();
        Ok(Event{
            title,
            description,
            time,
            date,
        })
    }
}


pub fn remind(event:Event){
    Command::new("notify-send")
        .arg(event.title)
        .arg(event.time)
        .spawn()
        .expect("Notification failed to send");
}
pub fn schedule(event: Event) {
    //TODO use at job with linux
}
```
Firstly, we import `std::process::Command;` which is respoble for running linux commands on the machine in essence.

Next lets talk about the structure of an event.
```rust
pub struct Event {
    title: String,
    description: String,
    time: String,
    date: String,
}
```
It is not too complicated to understand, it has the 4 essential things to know about an event - title, description, time, date. These of course are all `String`'s for two reasons, it is what the arguments we gave in `main.rs` are, and because of the `at` linux command line process that we will use later. Futhermore, we could make the time and date an `int` type but it would be too complicated in my opinon and not worth the effort.

Next we can make a new event with the `Event impl` and the `new` method.
```rust
    pub fn new(args: Vec<String>) -> Result<Event, &'static str> {
        let title = args[0].clone();
        let description = args[1].clone();
        let time = args[2].clone();
        let date = args[3].clone();
        Ok(Event{
            title,
            description,
            time,
            date,
        })
    }
```
Lets break it down. The `new` method takes in a vector of strings, because this is what we collected in `main.rs` for our env arguments, and returns a `Result` enum. The `Result` enum can return either the `Event` struct or a static str,  an err. Then we take the arguments and and clone them all into varibles becasue of refernce and lifetime errors we would get otherwise. Finally use the `Ok` method which returns a `Result` of the struct.

Now say we do want to call the reminder, we use the `remind` function which can use the `Command` crate imported from earlier and send a notication using two arguments, the title and the time. 

But how do we actually scedule an event? The scedule function, which is not done, will use the [at](https://linuxize.com/post/at-command-in-linux/) linux command line interface to make an event and run the notication reminder at the specified time and date. 

So far so good and next week I plan on coming with an updated and improved version. The end goal is to have something well written and working by November fifth.